In Python, you can use lambda expressions to create anonymous functions.
That is functions that don't have a name.
They are very helpful for creating
quick functions that aren't really needed later in your code.
Later, we'll learn about higher order functions or functions that take in
other functions as arguments where lambda expressions become especially useful.
Let's compare the structure of a function and a lambda expression.
Here is a simple function that doubles a number.
It takes in a number x and returns x multiplied by two.
Calling double three would return six.
Here's the equivalent in a lambda expression.
The lambda keyword is used to indicate that this is a lambda expression.
Following lambda are one or more arguments for the anonymous function and then a colon.
These are equivalent, similar to the way argument names in a function are arbitrary.
Last is an expression that is evaluated and returned in this function.
This is a lot like the expression you might see as a return statement in a function.
With this structure, lambda expressions aren't ideal for complex functions,
but can be very useful for short symbol functions.
If you want to specify multiple arguments in a lambda function,
you can include them before the colon separated by commas.
Here's a lambda function that multiplies two numbers together.
In the following quizzes,
you'll get some practice using lambda functions and see how useful they can be.